#summary Building iDoubs v2.x
#labels Phase-Support,Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

== Introduction ==
*iDoubs v2.x* is a beta version of our ([http://www.doubango.org/ Doubango Telecom]) VoIP client for iOS (iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad) and is based on [http://code.google.com/p/doubango/source/browse/#svn%2Fbranches%2F2.0 Doubango v2.x] while *iDoubs v1.x* (alpha version) was based on [http://code.google.com/p/doubango/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk Doubango v1.x]. <br/>

This new version is now split in two parts: *iDoubs v2.x* and *ios-ngn-stack*. <br />
 # *iDoubs v2.x* is the VoIP client and mostly contain UI related code. It depends on *ios-ngn-stack* project (see below).
 # *ios-ngn-stack* is our NGN (Next Generation Network)  Framework and contains Objective-C wrappers (around ANSI-C) for *Doubango*.  This framework contains wrappers for the protocol stacks (SIP, MSRP, HTTP, RTP ...), utility services (Database storage, Call log management, Address Book ...). <br />

== Checking out the source code ==

To build the source code you will need: xcode 3.x or later, iOS SDK 4.x or later and svn tools.<br />

  * open new Terminal (Applications => Utilities => Terminal)

  * from the command line, login as root
{{{
sudo -i
}}}

 * Create new directory named mydoubs anywhere in your disk:
{{{
mkdir mydoubs
cd mydoubs
}}}

 * checkout doubango source code (both trunk and branches) into *mydoubs*. __*Important:*__ The destination folder MUST be named *doubango*:
{{{
svn checkout http://doubango.googlecode.com/svn/ doubango
}}}

 * create new folder named *iPhone* into *mydoubs*:
{{{
mkdir iPhone
cd iPhone
}}}

 * checkout ios-ngn-stack source code into *iPhone* folder. *Important:* The destination folder MUST be named *idoubs*:
{{{
svn checkout http://idoubs.googlecode.com/svn/ idoubs
}}}

 * change *mydoubs* folder permissions:
{{{
cd ../..
chmod -R 777 mydoubs/*
}}}

== Building the source code ==
This section explain how to build *Doubango*, the *NGN Stack* and *iDoubs* from xcode.

=== Building the NGN Stack ===
As stated in the *Introduction* section, *iDoubs v2.x* depends on the NGN Stack which means that you *MUST* build this target before building *iDoubs* target. <br />
*Note:* *iDoubs* project already contains a reference to the NGN Stack (*ios-ngn-stack*) which means that you can build it directly from *iDoubs*. This is not advised if you are building *iDoubs* for the first time. <br />

  * open *mydoubs/iPhone/idoubs/branches/2.0/ios-ngn-stack/ios-ngn-stack.xcodeproj*
	# *Very Important:* make sure that the right base sdk is selected (iOS SDK x.y): Right click on *ios-ngn-stack* => *Get Info* => *Build* tab => From *Architectures* group adjust *Base SDK* and select "iOS x.y" where "x.y" is your preferred version of the iOS SDK.
	# build *Doubango:* Right click on *Doubango* aggregated target and select *Build Doubango*
	# build the NGN stack: Right click on *ios-ngn-stack* target and select *Build ios-ngn-stack*

You are know ready to build the test applications if you want:
 # *testRegistration:* to  test SIP registration
 # *testAudioCall:* to test audio calls
 # *testVideoCall:* to test video calls
 # *testMessaging:* to test Instant Messaging (SIP Pager Mode IM)

=== Building iDoubs ===
*iDoubs* is the VoIP client and depends on *ios-ngn-stack* target. <br />

  * open *mydoubs/iPhone/idoubs/branches/2.0/idoubs/idoubs.xcodeproj*
	# *Very Important:* make sure that the right base sdk is selected (iOS SDK x.y): Right click on *ios-ngn-stack* => *Get Info* => *Build* tab => From *Architectures* group adjust *Base SDK* and select "iOS x.y" where "x.y" is your preferred version of the iOS SDK.
	# build *Doubango:* Right click on *Doubango* aggregated target and select *Build Doubango*
	# build the NGN stack: Right click on *Ngn* target and select *Build Ngn*
	# build the iDoubs: Right click on *iDoubs* target and select *Build iDoubs*
<br />
Et voilà. You can now run iDoubs. <br />
*Note:* As you have remarked, it's possible to build both the NGN stack and Doubango projects from *iDoubs*. <br />
Before starting to use iDoubs, please take a look at the user guide in order to understand how to configure the client.

  